[docs] Expand the EAS Metadata documentation (#19028)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas/metadata/config.md

---
title: Configuring EAS Metadata
sidebar_title: store.config.json
---

import { Callout } from '~/ui/components/Callout';
import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';

<Callout type="warning">
  EAS Metadata is in beta and subject to breaking changes.
</Callout>
<br />

> EAS Metadata is configured by a **store.config.json** file in the _root of your project_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EAS Metadata is configured by a **store.config.json** file at the _root of your project_.
```

The file location is at some place. That's why we use "at the root of the project".

You can configure the path or name of the store config file with the **eas.json** [`metadataPath`](../../submit/eas-json.md#metadatapath) property.
Besides the default JSON format, EAS Metadata also supports more dynamic config using JavaScript files.

## Static store config

The default store config type for EAS Metadata is a simple JSON file.

> The example below shows an example store config with basic App Store information written in English (U.S.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code snippet below shows an example store config with basic App Store information written in English (U.S.).
```

You can find all configuration options in the [store config schema](./schema.md).

> If you have the [VS Code Expo plugin](https://github.com/expo/vscode-expo#readme) installed, you get auto-complete, suggestions, and warnings for **store.config.json** files.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={['store.config.json']}>

```json
{
  "configVersion": 0,
  "apple": {
    "info": {
      "en-US": {
        "title": "Awesome App",
        "subtitle": "Your self-made awesome app",
        "description": "The most awesome app you've ever seen",
        "keywords": ["awesome", "app"],
        "marketingUrl": "https://example.com/en/promo",
        "supportUrl": "https://example.com/en/support",
        "privacyPolicyUrl": "https://example.com/en/privacy"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Dynamic store config

> Metadata like the **copyright notice** should contain the current year, with EAS Metadata this can be automated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At times, Metadata fields can benefit from dynamic values. For example, the Metadata **copyright notice** should contain the current year. This can be automated with EAS Metadata.
```

Author: ```suggestion
At times, Metadata properties can benefit from dynamic values. For example, the Metadata **copyright notice** should contain the current year. This can be automated with EAS Metadata.
```

I think I referred to these as "metadata properties", as in object properties. Will add your suggestion, but with `fields -> properties`, if that's ok with you 😄

> Generate content dynamically by creating a JavaScript config file **store.config.js**. Use the [`metadataPath`](../../submit/eas-json.md#metadatapath) property in the **eas.json** file to pick the JS config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate content dynamically, start by creating a JavaScript config file **store.config.js**. Then, use the [`metadataPath`](../../submit/eas-json.md#metadatapath) property in the **eas.json** file to pick the JS config file.
```

> `eas metadata:pull` can't update dynamic store config files. Instead, it creates a JSON file with the same name as the configured file. You can import the JSON file to reuse the data from `eas metadata:pull`.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={['store.config.js', 'eas.json']}>

```js
// Use the data from `eas metadata:pull`
const config = require('./store.config.json');

const year = new Date().getFullYear();
config.apple.copyright = `${year} Acme, Inc.`;

module.exports = config;
```

```json
{
  "submit": {
    "production": {
      "ios": {
        "metadataPath": "./store.config.js"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Store config with external content

When using external services for localizations, you have to fetch external content.
EAS Metadata supports synchronous and asynchronous functions exported from dynamic store config files.
The function results are awaited before validating and syncing with the stores.

> > The **store.config.js** function is evaluated in Node. If you need special values, like secrets, use environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The **store.config.js** function is evaluated in Node.js. If you need special values, like secrets, use environment variables.
```

---

> title: Create config files for EAS Metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Create config files for EAS Metadata
```
This is a bit wordsy, maybe 'Configuring EAS Metadata' like we do with app.json

Author: ```suggestion
title: Configuring EAS Metadata
```

> sidebar_title: Creating the store config

Reviewer 2: "Store config" seems a little bit more ambiguous since it's more of a "Metadata config" (also seems ok). One thing I like about `store.config.json` is that we always use it for downloading, and it implies this is a JSON-related data structure.

> sidebar_title: Creating the store config

Author: I changed all references to the `store.config.json` to be the term "store config", since we also support 2 different types of "store configs"; `store.config.json` and `store.config.js`. It's just a consistency thing, we can update that if needed.

For the schema, I think we can name that `Metadata Schema`, since that refers to the object within the store config.

> sidebar_title: Creating the store config

Author: I'll update the sidebar links with this ^

---

import { Callout } from '~/ui/components/Callout';
import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';

<Callout type="warning">
  EAS Metadata is in beta and subject to breaking changes.
</Callout>
<br />

> EAS Metadata is designed to be as simple as possible while still being extensible to cover almost all use cases.
> By default, it uses a simple **store.config.json** file located at the _root of your project_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EAS Metadata is configured by a **store.config.json** file in the _root of your project_.
```

Besides the default JSON format, EAS Metadata also supports more dynamic config using JavaScript files.

## Static store config

The default store config type for EAS Metadata is a simple JSON file.
The example below shows an example store config with basic App Store information written in English (U.S.).

You can find all configuration options in the [store config schema](./schema.md).

> If you have the [VS Code Expo plugin](https://github.com/expo/vscode-expo#readme) installed, you get auto-complete, suggestions, and warnings for **store.config.json** files.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={['store.config.json']}>

```json
{
  "configVersion": 0,
  "apple": {
    "info": {
      "en-US": {
        "title": "Awesome App",
        "subtitle": "Your self-made awesome app",
        "description": "The most awesome app you've ever seen",
        "keywords": ["awesome", "app"],
        "marketingUrl": "https://example.com/en/promo",
        "supportUrl": "https://example.com/en/support",
        "privacyPolicyUrl": "https://example.com/en/privacy"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Dynamic store config

> The static config can get you far, but sometimes it's better to use a dynamic value.
> For example, copyright notices usually contain the current year, which is easy to forget to update every year.
> You can make this dynamic by using a **store.config.js** file configured with the [`metadataPath`](../../submit/eas-json.md#metadatapath) property in your **eas.json** file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metadata like the **copyright notice** should contain the current year, with EAS Metadata this can be automated.

Generate content dynamically by creating a JavaScript config file **store.config.js**. Use the [`metadataPath`](../../submit/eas-json.md#metadatapath) property in the **eas.json** file to pick the JS config file.
```

> `eas metadata:pull` can't update dynamic store config files. Instead, it creates a JSON file with the same name as the configured file. You can import the JSON file to reuse the data from `eas metadata:pull`.

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={['store.config.js', 'eas.json']}>

```js
// Use the data from `eas metadata:pull`
const config = require('./store.config.json');

const year = new Date().getFullYear();

module.exports = {
  ...config,

>   copyright: `${year} Acme, Inc.`,

Reviewer 2: Doesn't the copyright need to be in the `apple` object?

Author: ![oopsy](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1203991/189140997-d243d95e-7d52-436a-aeff-607072301735.gif)

I've looked at this for way too long. Will fix it!

};
```

```json
{
  "submit": {
    "production": {
      "ios": {
        "metadataPath": "./store.config.js"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

## Store config with external content

> When using external services for localizations or concepts like "remote config", you have to fetch external content.

Reviewer 2: What is "remote config"

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can go with "data fetching" as this is a more common term in web dev and is pretty self-explanatory. Also remote config is generally for A/B testing.

> When using external services for localizations or concepts like "remote config", you have to fetch external content.

Author: ```suggestion
When using external services for localizations, you have to fetch external content.
```
